SwiftUI: Picker (#1383)
Codecademy/docs: content/swiftui/concepts/views/terms/picker/picker.md

---
Title: 'Picker'
Description: 'A control that selects a value from a set of exclusive values.'
Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI Views'
  - 'Views'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

> 

Reviewer: 1. There should only be one line break after the metadata.
2. There should be a sentence describing a Picker before we reach the Syntax section.

```pseudo
var body: some View {
    Picker(title: , selection: Binding<Hashable>) {
        Subviews / labels here
    }
}
```

## Example

In the example below, we have an `enum`, that stores a selection of difficulty levels, an `@State` property, that stores the selected difficulty, and inside the `body` there is a `List` with a `Picker`. 

```swift
enum Difficulty {
    case easy
    case medium
    case hard
    case extreme
}

@State private var selectedDifficulty: Difficulty = .medium

var body: some View {
    List {
        Picker("Level:", selection: $selectedDifficulty) {
            Text("Easy")
               .tag(Difficulty.medium)

            Text("Medium")
                .tag(Difficulty.medium)

            Text("Hard")
                .tag(Difficulty.hard)

            Text("Extreme")
                .tag(Difficulty.extreme)
        }
    }
}

```

- This will display a `Picker` with the label 'Level:' and the selection right at the end.
- Inside the brackets you have all available options.

> - `.tag(Difficulty.easy)` differentiate between certain selectable views, like the possible values of the picker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.tag(Difficulty.easy)` differentiates between certain selectable views, like the possible values of the picker.
```

---
Title: 'Picker'

> Description: 'A control that selects a value from a set of exclusive values.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Allows a user to select a value from a set of exclusive values.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI Views'
  - 'Views'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

> A `Picker` allows user to select a specific data between a set of data and can be displayed in different styles based on the type of data and its ultimate use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `Picker` allows a user to select a specific data value between a set of data. It can be displayed with different styles based on the type of data and its ultimate use.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
var body: some View {

>     Picker(title: , selection: Binding<Hashable>) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Picker("Title here", selection: Binding<Hashable>) {
```

>         Subviews / labels here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Subviews and/or labels here
```

> You can create a **`Picker`** by providing a title (or label), a selection of binding, and the content to display. The `selection:` parameter needs to bound to an `@State` property, this will keep track of possible changes in the selection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create a **`Picker`** by providing a title or label, a selection of binding, and the content to display. The `selection` parameter needs to bound to an `@State` property which will keep track of possible changes in the selection.
```

Reviewer 2: Could we also move this to below the pseudo code block?

    Picker(title: , selection: Binding<Hashable>) {
        Subviews / labels here
    }
}
```

## Example

> In the example below, we have an `enum`, that stores a selection of difficulty levels, an `@State` property, that stores the selected difficulty, and inside the `body` there is a `List` with a `Picker`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example below, we have an `enum` that stores a selection of difficulty levels, an `@State` property that stores the selected difficulty, and inside the `body` there is a `List` with a `Picker`. 
```

enum Difficulty {
    case easy
    case medium
    case hard
    case extreme
}

@State private var selectedDifficulty: Difficulty = .medium

var body: some View {
    List {
        Picker("Level:", selection: $selectedDifficulty) {
            Text("Easy")

>                .tag(Difficulty.medium)

Reviewer 2: I think you mean:

```suggestion
               .tag(Difficulty.easy)
```

            Text("Easy")
               .tag(Difficulty.medium)

            Text("Medium")
                .tag(Difficulty.medium)

            Text("Hard")
                .tag(Difficulty.hard)

            Text("Extreme")
                .tag(Difficulty.extreme)
        }
    }
}

```

> - This will display a `Picker` with the label 'Level:' and the selection right at the end.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- This will display a `Picker` with the label `'Level:'` and the selection right at the end.
```

> - Inside the brackets you have all available options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Inside the brackets are all available options.
```

Refrain from using "you" in Docs.

> - Inside the brackets you have all available options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Inside the brackets are all available options.
```

Refrain from using "you" in Docs.

> You can create a **`Picker`** by providing a title or label, a selection of binding, and the content to display.
> The `selection` parameter needs to bound to an `@State` property which will keep track of possible changes in the selection.
> - This will display a `Picker` with the label `'Level:'` and the selection right at the end.
> - Inside the brackets are all available options.
> - `.tag(Difficulty.easy)` differentiates between certain selectable views, like the possible values of the picker.

Reviewer 2: Let's actually make this into paragraph format only.

```suggestion
A **`Picker`** can be created by providing a title or label, a selection of binding, and the content to display. The `selection` parameter needs to bound to an `@State` property which will keep track of possible changes in the selection.

The example above will display a `Picker` with the label `'Level:'` and the selection right at the end. Inside the brackets are all available options. `.tag()` differentiates between certain selectable views, like the possible values of the picker.
```

This will display the following:

> ![Picker](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/swiftui-picker.png)

Reviewer 2: Are you using iOS 16 for these? I'm thinking that it may be better to not use a `List` and alter the images below. It's not as aesthetically pleasing but may be better to focus on the `Picker`.

## Syntax

```pseudo
var body: some View {
    Picker("Title here", selection: Binding<Hashable>) {
        Subviews and/or labels here
    }
}
```

## Example

In the example below, the `@State` property wrapper tracks the selected difficulty, and inside the `body` there is a `Picker` that allows the user to select a difficulty from a selection of difficulty levels that are stored within the [`enum`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/enums).

```swift
enum Difficulty {
    case easy
    case medium
    case hard
    case extreme
}

@State private var selectedDifficulty: Difficulty = .medium

var body: some View {
    HStack {
        Text("Level:")

        Spacer()

        Picker("Level:", selection: $selectedDifficulty) {
            Text("Easy")
               .tag(Difficulty.easy)

            Text("Medium")
                .tag(Difficulty.medium)

            Text("Hard")
                .tag(Difficulty.hard)

            Text("Extreme")
                .tag(Difficulty.extreme)
        }
    }
    .padding()
}
```

> A **`Picker`** can be created by providing a title or label, a selection, and the content to display. The `selection` parameter needs to bound to an `@State` property which will keep track of possible changes in the selection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A **`Picker`** can be created by providing a title or label, a selection, and the content to display. The `selection` parameter needs to be bound to an `@State` property which will keep track of possible changes in the selection.
```

> The example above will display a `Picker` wrapped inside a [`HStack`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/hstack). In addition, the `Text` and `Picker` view are separated by a `Spacer()` which will push both views to the edge of the screen. All the available difficulty options are available within the picker as text views and the `.tag()` modifier differentiates between the selectable views.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example above will display a `Picker` wrapped inside a [`HStack`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/hstack). In addition, the `Text` and `Picker` views are separated by a `Spacer()` which will push both views to the edge of the screen. All the available difficulty options are available within the picker as text views and the `.tag()` modifier differentiates between the selectable views.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
var body: some View {
    Picker("Title here", selection: Binding<Hashable>) {
        Subviews and/or labels here
    }
}
```

## Example

In the example below, the `@State` property wrapper tracks the selected difficulty, and inside the `body` there is a `Picker` that allows the user to select a difficulty from a selection of difficulty levels that are stored within the [`enum`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/enums).

```swift
enum Difficulty {
    case easy
    case medium
    case hard
    case extreme
}

@State private var selectedDifficulty: Difficulty = .medium

var body: some View {
    HStack {
        Text("Level:")

        Spacer()

        Picker("Level:", selection: $selectedDifficulty) {
            Text("Easy")
               .tag(Difficulty.easy)

            Text("Medium")
                .tag(Difficulty.medium)

            Text("Hard")
                .tag(Difficulty.hard)

            Text("Extreme")
                .tag(Difficulty.extreme)
        }
    }
    .padding()
}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

A **`Picker`** can be created by providing a title or label, a selection, and the content to display. The `selection` parameter needs to bound to an `@State` property which will keep track of possible changes in the selection.

> The example above will display a `Picker` wrapped inside a `HStack` which will display the text `'Level:'` and the selection right at the end. In addition, the `Text` and `Picker` view are separated by a `Spacer()`, which will push both views to the edge of the screen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example above will display a `Picker` wrapped inside a [`HStack`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/hstack) which will display the text `'Level:'` and the selection right at the end. In addition, the `Text` and `Picker` views are separated by a `Spacer()`, which will push both views to the edge of the screen.
```

Inside the brackets are all available options. `.tag()` differentiates between certain selectable views, like the possible values of the picker.

> This will display the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will display the following by default and when the picker is clicked, respectively:
```
